# Javascript Syntax, Variable

- We can write javascript code inside <script> tag inside html page like this.
- ```
        <html lang="en">
        <head>
            <script>
                    // write your javascript code
            </script>
        </head>
        <body>
            <script>
                // write your javascript code
            </script>
        </body>
        </html>
  ```
- But this is not recomended, because it will become difficult to manage if the javascript code increase.
- Its always prefereble to write script tag inside body section
- Fot better management of the project, we usually write code inside another javascript file and we include that js file inside Html page, like below.
- ```
        <html lang="en">
        <head>
        </head>
        <body>
            <script src="./calculatorscript.js"></script>
            <script src="./myAlert.js"></script>
        </body>
        </html>
  ```
- In html code runs line by line, if you write alert inside <script> tag at the begining of the code, then first it will show the alert. Then on click on the alert, other part of the html code will execute later
- If you write the alert code at the end of the body , you will see the webpage immediately and then alert will be displayed.

## Variables

- Its container of a value
- by using var and let we can define variable
- ```
     let name = "SIba"
     var age = 32;
    const address = "asdasdas";
  ```
- You can change the value of a variable defined by var and let
- But you can not change value if u used const
- Variable name can be
  - camelCase
  - only letters and digits
  - Starting with $ and \_ is allowed
- Below variable names are not allowed - no camelCase , its allowed but a bad practice - Starting with digit is not allowed. - No special characters apart fro\_ and $ - var,let,const names are not allowed.
  **NOTE-** You can't ommit the semi-colon when having two expressions in one line for example - let const a = 1; let const b = 2;

## Data Types in Javascript

- String
- Number
- Object
- Boolean
- Undefined
- null
- Array
- To check the type of a variable, we can check by using typeOf operator in Javascript.

## Javascript String Template Literals

- you can use $ and curly bracket to show a variable/constant inside the '' or ""
- ```
        let myAge = 30;
        let sentence = `My age is ${myAge} and my name is Siba`
  ```
- While using the above statement , you can write multiline string also like tgis
- ```
        let myAge = 30;
        let sentence = 'My age is ${myAge}
        and my name is Siba'
  ```

- If you want to display any '' inside '', the you can se back slash
- ```
    let set = 'my name is \'siba''
  ```

## Local and Global Variable

- **Local Variable** Variables which we declare inside a block or function, that variable can be access inside the function.It cant be access outside the function.
- ```
    function printNameAndAge(){
        const name = "Siba";
        let age = 23
    }
  ```
- In the Above function name and age are two local variables
- **Global Variable** Variables which can be accessible from all over. Thats known as global variable
- ```
    <script>
        let age = 32;
        const name = "Siba";

        function printNameAndAge(){
        console.log("name "+name+"  Age "+age);
        }
    </script>
  ```

- In the Above function name and age are two Global variables
  > Note : Local variable have higher preferences over global variable inside the block of code.

## Return statement

- Whatever we write after return statement will not be execute
- you can return nothing in a function
- ```
    <script>
        function printNameAndAge(){
        return "Siba"; or return;
        alert("Siba"); // this line will not be execute
        }
    </script>
  ```

## calling function Inderectly

- By using the addEventListener() function , we can call a function
- button.addEventListener("param1",functionNameToExecute);
- param1 - is nothing but the action like click, longPress etc
- second parameter - is gets called when clicked button
- For code details please open calcApp.js inside calculator package

## Data Type Conversion

> **In JavaScript there are 5 different data types that can contain values:**

- string
- number
- boolean
- object
- function

- **There are 6 types of objects:**
  - Object
  - Date
  - Array
  - String
  - Number
  - Boolean
- **And 2 data types that cannot contain values:**
  - null
  - undefined

## typeof

- It is used to check the data type of a variable

```
    <script>
        var name;
        console.log(typeof(name));       // string
        let name1;
        console.log(typeof(name1));      // undefined
        let num;
        console.log(typeof(num));        // undefined
        name = "Sibaprasad"
        console.log(typeof(name));       // string
        let nullValue = null
        console.log(typeof(nullValue));  // Object
    </script>
```

## String conversion

- String(x) - it convert anything to string
- here x is anything(string, boolean, number, object, array...)

## toString

- x.toString()

## Converting String to number

- **Number()** can convert strings to numbers.
- ```
    Number("3.14")    // returns 3.14
    Number(" ")       // returns 0
    Number("")        // returns 0
    Number("99 88")   // returns NaN
  ```
- **parseFloat()** Parses a string and returns a floating point number
- **parseInt()** Parses a string and returns an integer

## Converting Boolean to Number

- Number(true) - 1
- Number(false) - 0

## Converting Date to Number

- ```
    d = new Date();
    Number(d)
  ```

## Automatic Conversion

- ```
    5 + null    // returns 5         because null is converted to 0
    "5" + null  // returns "5null"   because null is converted to "null"
    "5" + 2     // returns "52"      because 2 is converted to "2"
    "5" - 2     // returns 3         because "5" is converted to 5
    "5" * "2"   // returns 10        because "5" and "2" are converted to 5 and 2
  ```

## Creating Object

- By using the {}, we can create object
- ```
       let result = 123;
       const logEntry = {
               operation: 'ADD',
               prevResult: 123,
               number: 12,
               result: result

       };
  ```

- In the above example logEntry is an object

## Accesssing Object values

- logEntry.operation
- logEntry.prevResult

## Undefined, null, Nan

- **undefined**
  - its a datatype
  - default value of uninitialized variables
  - you should not assign undefined as a value mannually
- **null**
  - Never assumed by default
  - You can assign this is a value if you want to "reset" /"clear" a variable
- **NaN**
  - Not a Number
  - Its not a data type
  - Technically, its of type number and can therefore be used in calculations
  - It yeilds a new Nan and its the result of invalid calculations (e.g 3\*'hi')
  - 3\*'hi' : it will print NaN

## Importing Scripts Correctly with defer & Async
- **https://javascript.info/script-async-defer**
- If you will import the JS files at the bottom of the HTML code.
- Then after all the html code execute, then js code will execute
- For small line of code, it is fine but for huge number of code, it will make a difference
- Here is the worst Approach
- ```
        <html>
        <body>
        // html code
        // js code
        </body>
        </html>
  ```
- Here is the average Approach
- ```
        <html>
        <head>
        <title>
        </title>
        // js code
        </head>
        <body>
        // html code
        </body>
        </html>
  ```
- Here is the Best Approach
- ```
        <html>
        <head>
        <title>
        </title>
        // js code with defer
        <script src="./abcd.js" defer>
        </head>
        <body>
        // html code
        </body>
        </html>
  ```

## Defer

- Sometime your js code rely on html code, So if your js code execute first it will show error.
- So that if you use difer, js code will be downloaded but execute after html code rendder.
- If you use this keyword in <script> tag, this means, it will download the js file code but will not execute until the html code execute.
- Once the html code parse, then js file will be execute

## async

- Sometime your js code does rely/depend on html code.
- So your code does not wait to execute all html code
- In this case use async instead of defer.
- ```
        <html>
        <head>
        <title>
        </title>
        // js code with defer
        <script src="./abcd.js" async>
        </head>
        <body>
        // html code
        </body>
        </html>
  ```
- In above code, abcd.js will be download and execute first.
